Add Security section (#4633)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/reproducible-research/security/security-principles.md

(rr-security-principles)=

# Software Security Principles

## Secure design

When designing an application from a security perspective,
the first question is to ask **what can go wrong**.
This activity is part of a design process called threat modeling. 

The threat model differs case by case. Here are some example use cases
and security aspects:
- An application with public data, few developers and users: What
happens if one of the developers' laptops is stolen? How does the team
minimize the risks from this?
- An application that handles sensitive data: How does the system
protect data from the curious eyes of a stakeholder---an
administrator, analyst, or developer? Do they all need access 

> to the entire data system?

Author: Perhaps change the perspective to 'illegitimate requests from an insider'? 'Curious eyes' sounds harmless, but it is not always, and 'stakeholder' sound legitimate.

Reviewer: thanks, fixed.

- An application with many contributors where not everyone knows each other:
How does the development process protect from an adversarial
developer that aims to steal others' credentials?
- An application that is distributed to hundreds of users: How does
the application protect from an attacker that uses the application to
infiltrate users' systems?
- An application that is exposed to the internet on a server: TBD.

Depending on what can go wrong, one needs to define **what to 
do about it**. Incorporating this early in the design process

> ensures that security is not an afterthought in the application.

Author: ```suggestion
ensures that security is not an afterthought.
```

When designing the security of an application, it is useful to
follow security principles such as [2,3]:

### No security guarantee

No application or system is guaranteed to be protected from all attacks.
The goal of software security is to make it for an attacker as unattractive

> as possible, by making it hard and reducing the rewards.

Author: ```suggestion
The goal of security is to make attacking a software as unattractive
as possible, by making it hard and reducing the rewards.
```

Since it applies to all software, the principle also 
matters for [managing dependencies](#managing-dependencies).

### Least privilege and separation of duties

Least privilege means that users should only be given access to the 
resources they need to do their job.
Separation of duties means that tasks and responsibilities are distributed
across different roles, so that no single person has access to everything.

Examples:
- In a shared file system such as a HPC cluster, 
implement access controls so that users can only read/modify/execute 
files per their needs.

> - In the sensitive data system mentioned above, use role-based

Author: ```suggestion
- Use role-based
```

database access so that developers, users and administrators only 
see the data they need to see.

### Defense-in-depth

This means that a system is secured across different layers: if one layer
fails, other layers still stand and protect the asset. The layers of security
can be network security, application security, and data security. Defense-in-depth
reduces the risk of a successful attack.

Example:

> - To protect the sensitive data system, application security can come from

Author: ```suggestion
- To protect a data system, application security can come from
```

requiring authentication to log in to the system. Data security can come 
from role-based access and/or from encrypting/hashing sensitive columns

> such as person's name. 

Author: ```suggestion
such as person names. 
```

### Zero trust

This principle assumes that all users, devices, and networks are untrusted
and must be verified before access is granted. This includes data provided 
by users.

Example:
- When exposing a database to user queries, the user inputs need to be validated
and queries parameterized. This prevents from [injection attacks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_injection)
where the user can exfiltrate data they are not supposed to see, or change data they are not 
supposed to change.

## Secure implementation

Implementation concerns building and deploying the software as well as 
managing the defects.

### Documentation

Software development teams should have good documentation about
security techniques, tools and threats. This increases
awareness for everyone in the development process and helps following
good practices.

> In cases where users can interact in public with developers---such as

Author: ```suggestion
In cases where users interact in public with developers---such as
```
